UX-SIG proposal November 2020 (#29)
nlesc-sigs/propose-a-sig: proposals/UX.md

# Application form for starting a SIG

## What will be the name of the SIG

User Experience SIG:  **UX-SIG**
![Creativity](https://positivepsychology.com/wp-content/uploads/boost-your-creativity.jpg)

## Which two persons will act as SIG Lead?

- Jesus Garcia Gonzalez
- Sven van der Burg

> ## What is the SIG's mission?

Reviewer: I think we can be more bold here. Something like this: Our mission is to make development at NLeSC more user-centric, thereby significantly improving the value of project outcomes.

Author: I loved the bold statement. I put it in the document

<!-- The mission of your SIG should contribute to the organization's mission. -->

> The SIG aims to start slowly expanding the knowledge and the importance of Human-centric design and best User Experience techniques within our organization and research projects, especially when developing software. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SIG aims to slowly start expanding the knowledge and the importance of Human-centric design and best User Experience techniques within our organization and research projects, especially when developing software. 
```

## What GitHub repository will the SIG use?
To be created

## What Office group will the SIG use?
UX-SIG, ux@esciencecenter.nl (to be created)

## Plans for period until the end of April 2020

- **Design Critiques for current projects**:  encouraging a positive culture to improve projects. Analyze the design of the project's user journey, usability, accessibility, interaction, visualization, and presentation, and give feedback to team members. While making sure of keeping  a **Clear scope for the conversation",   "Agreed-upon design objectives for the work."  and motivating "Conversation rather than command." One project per Meeting. 

- **Proportionate UX tools and resources**: from tools for ideation, wireframing and prototyping, to resources for best practices and design patterns.
 
## What are the expected outputs of the proposed SIG?

> - **Design Thinking workshops**:  a Design Thinking workshop is a hands-on, activity-based session built around the Design Thinking process.

Reviewer: Is this something else than the 'Design Critqiues for current projects'? Or is it the same? And what is the outcome of these workshops? I.e. what do we gain from it?

I would propose something like: During the Design Critique sessions we will make NLeSC projects significantly more user-centered, thereby assuring that NLeSC projects bring more value

Through the bring your own project design critique session

Author: You are right, I am now realizing that this doesn't have to be _per se_ a task for the SIG, but an initiative for a different group, so we can keep the focus on Design Critiques. I removed the point from the document.

> ## Plans for period until the end of April 2020
> 
> - **Design Critiques for current projects**:  encouraging a positive culture to improve projects. Analyze the design of the project's user journey, usability, accessibility, interaction, visualization, and presentation, and give feedback to team members. While making sure of keeping  a **Clear scope for the conversation",   "Agreed-upon design objectives for the work."  and motivating "Conversation rather than command." One project per Meeting. 
> 
> - **Proportionate UX tools and resources**: from tools for ideation, wireframing and prototyping, to resources for best practices and design patterns.
>  
> ## What are the expected outputs of the proposed SIG?
> 
> - **Design Thinking workshops**:  a Design Thinking workshop is a hands-on, activity-based session built around the Design Thinking process.
> 
> - **Contributions to eScience Center Guide** on the following topics:
> 	-   Research / User testing
> 	-   Persona / Empathy map
> 	-   Information architecture
> 	-   Wireframe creation
> 	-   Style guide creation (or UI template)
> 	-   Visual design
> 	-   Prototyping
>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Plans for period until the end of April 2020

- **Bring Your Own Project Design Critique sessions**:  During a SIG meeting we analyze the design of one NLeSC project. We analyze the design of the project's user journey, usability, accessibility, interaction, visualization, and presentation, and give feedback to team members. In this session we will make sure of keeping  a "Clear scope for the conversation",   "Agreed-upon design objectives for the work."  and motivating "Conversation rather than command." 

- **Learn about UX tools and resources**: From tools for ideation, wireframing and prototyping, to resources for best practices and design patterns.
 
## What are the expected outputs of the proposed SIG?

- **Design Thinking workshops**:  a Design Thinking workshop is a hands-on, activity-based session built around the Design Thinking process.

- **Contributions to eScience Center Guide** on the following topics:
	-   Research / User testing
	-   Persona / Empathy map
	-   Information architecture
	-   Wireframe creation
	-   Style guide creation (or UI template)
	-   Visual design
	-   Prototyping
 
```

>  

Reviewer: Another expected outcome might be:

** Identify common hurdles for making NLeSC projects more user-centered ** By analysing different projects in the Design Critique sessions we will identify common hurdles in making them more user-centered. We can then start thinking on how to overcome those hurdles.

Author: very good and well defined
